# d3-data-tool

#In Defense of the Visual Layout:
  I wanted to choose data that had a lot of variables that I could moniter. My original plan was to combine two sets of data and see how they correlated however that proved to be difficult to find data that did a good job at showing this in a short amount of time. Instead I ended on visualizing incidence of cancer in each state filtering by race and gender. To me, there were numerous ways to show this data, however it depends on a couple of variables. If I only had a single set of each of the data points, bar charts could work well and simply show the incidence of each cancer in each state, with each state being a bar on the chart. Another method that interested my was encoding incidence by color or by a framed rectangle on a map of the US. This proved to be too complicated again in a short amount of time due to the GEOJSON data that I used was for a map of the US as a whole and not of individual states, meaning that plotting the color/ framed rectangles in the correct locations on the map would be quite difficult. Additionally I thought about showing the data using stem plots, showing the wide range of incidence reporting by state. However I ended up settling on using a multi-line chart, as I found it would lead to the most interesting graphic. The x-axis is time and the y-axis is incidence of all cancers. This allows my to present 50 different lines on the graph at once, each line tracking the incidence of all cancers from 1999 to 2012, filtered for race and gender. I chose this layout because I thought it would be interesting to see how states did against each other on a third variable scale, time. In static one year data we not be able to learn such information, with a time variable the viewer can follow how states compared to one another. This would also make for interesting graphs that filter GDP of a state, as GDP is usually a good indicator health status.
  
  The main reason I used a multi-line chart was to build it for future compatitiblity. By starting here, future visualizations I can filter for more variables, state GDP, state life-span, etc. Or in more broad terms, individual line variable 1, individual line variable 2, etc.
  
#In Defense of the Controlling Elements:
  With data such as incidence of cancer, as I mentioned before there are other variables I can filter with, GDP of the state, life-span, etc. However both of those lead to a couple of issues, primarily, involving more than one data set to filter may lead to problems down the road when I want to make this chart reusable. While I am sure there was a data set somewhere that had all of the variables I was interested in, I simply couldn't find it, which would mean that I would have to incorporate multiple data sets to filter.
  
  Which leaves us at the data set I had; I was primarily interested in the differences in incidence of cancer between race and gender because I think it would force the viewer to ask questions. "Why does X race Y gender have such low incidence of cancer compared to their A race B gender counter-parts?" While this data gives insights into simple questions, such as "Which state has the highest average incidence of cancer across all variables?", I also wanted the visualization to force more thought onto the viewer.
